# Processable
A Javascript process emulator and visual inspector/debugger.

## What it is
This project has a similar motivation to [Assemblance](http://github.com/rmw2/Assemblance): to demystify the working of computers on the operating system, process, and instruction levels.  Where assemblance focuses on relating instructions generated by a compiler to their corresponding source, this project aims to visualizes the state of the machine as a process executes, again relating higher-level programming concepts to their system-level implementation.

We would like in particular to visualize registers and the stack throughout program execution, updating an HTML markup of the system after the execution of each instruction.  As a way to teach systems programming, instructors are often tasked with conducting elaborate program traces to convey what's happening "beneath the hood" to their students.  Performing these traces by hand on a blackboard is exhausting, and becomes messier as addresses change contents and must be erased and written over.  However, generating these one instruction at a time in a program like Powerpoint is still more tedious.  We propose a browser application that can generate these traces automatically for an arbitrary program.  Eventually we would also like to develop a way to represent memory sections as they exist in a linux process: including .text, .rodata, .data, .bss, the memory mapping section, and the heap.

## What it isn't
While "visual debugging" is a phrase that describes more or less the interface, it does not aim to be the go-to debugger for someone working on a large project, as performance is not a primary concern, or even identical behavior to a particular machine.  Instead, we wish to help _understand_ the way programs are executed at the border between hardware and software.  While I certainly hope I will be able to load an operating system into a browser, I would be happy to end up with yet another way to visualize quicksort.

This work is part of my senior thesis, advised by [Bob Dondero](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~rdondero/about.html), and will be under development from June 2017 until (at least) April 2018.
