# Processable: A Visual Debugger for x86-64

Processable is a Senior Thesis project in the Princeton University Computer Science Department by [Rob Whitaker](http://github.com/rmw2) and advised by [Bob Dondero](http://cs.princeton.edu/~rdondero).

## Usage
When a program is first loaded, it is not yet running.  Start the process by typing `run [arg1, arg2, ...]` into the console, where `arg1...N` are the command line arguments to the program.  Once the process is started, you can toggle breakpoints by clicking on any address in the text section, and resart, step, and continue the process with the appropriate buttons in the navigation bar.  If you prefer interacting with your process via the command line, the console will respond to gdb-style commands when the process is paused, including `step`, `continue`, and `break`.

Additionally, each of the memory areas is interactive in some way.  
- *The stack* can be shown as growing up or down, (though it will always grow toward low addresses).  The stack is also decoded in groups of bytes, the length of which can be set by the "alignment" buttons in the upper righthand corner.  Clicking any of the decoding groups will toggle it's decoding between hexidecimal, unsigned decimal, signed decimal, ascii characters, and binary.  If the `*` (custom alignment) option is selected, the sizes of the decoding groups can be set individually; clicking on addresses along the lefthand side of the stack will split (or join) the group(s) touched by that address.  Note that decoding groups are limited to being 1, 2, 4, or 8 bytes in size.
- *Registers* can be decoded in a similar manner to the stack.  The button to the right of each register will cycle through the same set of decoding options.  The button to the left of each register value toggles the size of the register being displayed.  For example, `%rax` overlaps with `%eax, %ax, %ah,` and `%al`; clicking the left button will cycle through each of these overlapping registers.
- The *static sections* are shown in groups according to the labels provided in the text.  Each group is shown with its label, address, and a similar button to toggle the decoding of the data stored at that address.  The tabs in the static area allow you to choose between viewing the `rodata`, `data`, or `bss` section of static memory, which each behave the same way.

## Implementation Details
This app exists in three layers.  Underlying everything is a small library for dealing with [fixed-width integers](http://github.com/rmw2/fixed-int), which was written alongside the core emulator, which is (a subset of) an x86-64 virtual machine written in pure javascript.  On top of the emulator is a React application which provides the visual interface, where the components display the current state of the virtual machine, and the debugger controls are bound to API functions exposed by the emulator.  Feel free to check out code on [github](http://github.com/rmw2/processable). I plan to continue development on this project indefinitely, and contributions are welcome!